./img_kids/Angry.jpeg::
Angry Birds Movie 2::
The Angry Birds Movie 2 (or simply Angry Birds Movie 2) is a 2019 computer-animated comedy film based on Rovio Entertainment's Angry Birds video game series.::
The Angry Birds Movie 2 (or simply Angry Birds Movie 2) is a 2019 computer-animated comedy film based on Rovio Entertainment's Angry Birds video game series, produced by Columbia Pictures, Rovio Animation, and Sony Pictures Animation,[N 1] and distributed by Sony Pictures Releasing. The sequel to The Angry Birds Movie (2016), the film was directed by Thurop Van Orman and co-directed by John Rice (in their directorial debuts) from a screenplay by Peter Ackerman, Eyal Podell, and Jonathon E. Stewart. Jason Sudeikis, Josh Gad, Danny McBride, Maya Rudolph, Tony Hale, Bill Hader, and Peter Dinklage reprise their roles from the first film, with newcomers Leslie Jones, Rachel Bloom, Awkwafina, Sterling K. Brown, Eugenio Derbez, JoJo Siwa, and Brooklynn Prince joining the ensemble cast. In the film, the birds are forced to team up with the pigs when an advanced weapon threatens both Bird and Piggy Islands.

Production on a sequel to The Angry Birds Movie began in August 2016. New ideas for the film were conceived with the premise being that the birds and pigs work together to save themselves, which typically does not happen in most Angry Birds games. New characters for the film were announced in March 2019 along with new cast members. Heitor Pereira returned to compose the film's score with artists such as Kesha and Luke Combs contributing tracks for the film.

The film was theatrically released on August 2, 2019 in the United Kingdom and Ireland, and in the United States on August 13. It has grossed $154 million worldwide and received generally positive reviews, with many critics praising its animation, voice acting, humor and story, with many calling it a major improvement over its predecessor. It is also the best reviewed film based on a video game on Rotten Tomatoes, as of 2020.